International communication is a perennial problem of a globalised world. Politics, commerce, and entertainment all suffer from the difficulty of navigating the world's many mutually untintelligible languages. The natural solution is a single language that all people share, a Lingua Franca.

Historically, regional Lingua Francas have arisen naturally as a result of empire, with the shared language typically being that of the oppressors. The Mughal empire made Hindustani the lingua franca of Northern India and Pakistan, the Arabian empires made Arabic the lingua franca of the Islamic world, and the Brittish and American empires made English the lingua franca of the world.

While logical, this method of chosing a lingua franca is problematic. Natural languages deeply complicated and needlessly difficult to learn, disenfranchising those without the resources to learn it. Those who speak it naturally have an inherent economic advantage, while those who do not are perceived as less intelligent, further disadvantaging groups who are often already at a disadvantage in the colonial hierarchy.

A more equative solution is to artificially construct a language for use as a lingua franca. Such a language is called an international auxiliary language, or an auxlang. Constructed languages can be made to be much simpler and easier to learn than natural languages, and carry with them none of the biases or colonial associations of traditional lingua francas. An auxlang for the entire world would make international and intercultural interactions much easier, once it were in place. Without an empire to impose a lingua franca or a culture to take the charge of preserving it, however, the only way to make such a language spread would be a grassroots movement.

This is hardly a new idea. It has been attempted countless times, with the most notable by far being Esperanto. First published in 1887 by Ludwik Lejzer Zamenhof, Esperanto was intended to be an easy to learn and neutral international lingua franca. It succeeded at being simpler and more learnable than natural languages. However, problems with the language abounded. Primarily, it was based heavily on European languages, so while it spread quickly through Belle Époque Europe, it failed to garner large speaker communities in other parts of the world. Criticisms of Esperanto abounded, being raised so vocally by some that a breakaway group of Esperantists based a new language, Ido, off of it, splitting the community and further reducing the speaker-bases of both languages.

Due to these criticisms, the inherent difficulty of its mission, and several socio-political factors beyond Zamenhof's control, today Esperanto has largely failed at its goal. Most people have never heard of it, and most of those who have look negatively upon it, because they perceive it as eurocentric, foolish, or a failure. It is clear that in order for the goal of an auxlang to succeed, a new alternative to Esperanto must arise, free from its negative history.

I propose that that language is Oltilip. Shaped by direct feedback from <insert numbers here>, it will succeed where Esperanto failed and English dominates. Unlike the vast majority of proposed auxlangs, Oltilip is not based on any natural language family. Instead, he lexicon is derived from twenty languages selected and weighted to maximise international familiarity of roots, and the grammar is completely original.

Rather than valuing naturalism, Oltilip maximises international learnability, utilising a small phonemic inventory (only 17 different sounds), a tiny lexicon (only 342 word roots), a powerful and intuitive lexical derivation system, and an extremely flexible yet precise grammar.

For the linguisticly inclined, here is a summary of Oltilip's characteristics:
	- 

And just in case that hasn't convinced you, I've saved the most compelling advantange to Oltilip yet: because of its stative verbs, the sentence "I am hungry" can _never_ be interpreted as "My name is hungry"!
